# Data Analysis on Los-Angeles-Crimes-from-2010-to-Present Dataset
This dataset describes crimes in the City of Los Angeles dating back to 2010. This data is transcribed from original crime reports that are typed on paper and therefore there may be some inaccuracies within the data.

The dataset refers to the last update of June 02, 2018 and contains 26 columns and 1751418 rows, each of which corresponds to a crime incident.

Our work started with a satisfying Data Cleaning process, during which we changed original dataset formats with more standard ones, which are also easier to handle. We also added several useful column to the orignal dataset (such as Year Occurred, Month Occurred, Timeslot Occurred, etc), which have been used for the analysis computation during section (4), namely Explorative Analysis section. In this section we have reported several analysis using plots such as bar plots, box plots and histograms. During the analysis computation is also emerged a strange anomaly regarding Victim Ages, which prompted us to carry out a further iteration of data cleaning with the objective of remove as more as possible this anomaly. Doing this, we have successfully cleaned in a better way our dataset removing, even if partially, the anomaly.
Furthermore this section has figure out other significant analysis about our dataset, regarding for example the most frequent crimes and weapons used in the city of LA. We show also interesting statistics about crimes distribution over years, months, timeslots and weekdays, and some of them were a bit surprising.

The section (5) instead contains Learning algorithms, both Supervised and Unsupervised (respectively in (5.1) and (5.2)). This was the hardest part of our work, since we had to find out meaningful algorithms and techniques to use on categorical variables. Doing that, we found solutions for both cases (Supervised and Unsupervised) which brings to meaningful and interesting results.
In particular, in the Unsupervised Learning we used the Cramér's V measure in order to compute significant correlation indicators for variables in our dataset. As result we discovered interesting (and in some cases unexpected) correlations between some of these variables. The most unexpected of these indicates that Victim Sex is highly correlated with the type of structure, vehicle, or location where the crime took place (Premise Code), but also with the type of the Crime (Crime Code). We reported these results on a Correlation Matrix and after that we used a Clustering algorithm, namely K-Modes Clustering, which is similar to K-Means, but uses modes instead of means, making itself usable for cluster computation on categorical variables. As result of the clustering process, we figure out some cluster centroids which can potentially be interesting for authorities, since they can indicate "standard frequent crimes", allowing authorities to concentrate their forces in order to contrast crimes indicated by centroids and similar ones.
As done for Unsupervised Learning, also in Supervised Learning we worried about using meaningful algorithms capable to handle categorical features. Among all the possible Supervised Learning analysis we used the Decision Tree method for classification. We used this technique in order to classificate and make predictions on Modus Operandi and Weapon Used in crimes. We chosen these as target variables since they represent informations which could be unknown apriori. Therefore, trying to predict these informations could be interesting and useful.
So as result of Learning tasks we can be satisfied, since we provided tools potentially usable in the real world, which can support authorities (such as FBI and police) in their work. For instance, Supervised Learning tools can be useful in order to predict which weapon has been used in a crime and how the suspect acted (his modus operandi). Furthermore Unsupervised Learning tools can be useful in order to prevent crimes, but can be also useful for authorities in order to organize their forces and oppose to better counteract crimes occurrence.

Lastly in the section (6) we used Data Visualization techniques, in particular displaying data through maps of the city of LA. This allows to have at first glance and with more ease a general idea about crimes.
We carry out maps like the stolen vehicles, the victim sex and the victim nationality ones.
Maps showed in this section can be also useful for population. For instance, the stolen vehicles map can warn citizens about some risky areas where in the past many vehicles have been stolen.
Other maps, like victim nationality ones, can be further interpreted, because for instance it can indicate areas with higher concentration of people with a certain origin, or maybe areas where racism occurs toward particular ethnicities.

In conclusion, our work led to interesting results, analysis and statistics, but also provided useful tools both for authorities and population, which that allows a better understanding of crimes in LA.
